---
layout: post
date: 2023-03-07
inline: false
title:  Pausing Blockchain Learning to Focus on Cybersecurity
---
# Pausing Blockchain Learning to Focus on Cybersecurity
## Introduction
As much as I enjoy learning about blockchain and Web 3.0, I have decided to pause my learning in this area for now. I am officially transitioning into cybersecurity professionally, which requires me to spend a lot more time learning offensive and defensive cybersecurity skills, as well as building up my knowledge around the entire Secure Software Development Life Cycle and how to implement it into our processes.

## Certifications to Acquire
I have come to the realization that I have much to learn in order to meet regulatory requirements and succeed in my professional transition to cybersecurity. To accomplish this, I need to obtain several certifications, including TCM's PNPT, OSCP, ISC²'s CISSP, and the ISSAP concentration.

## Coming Back to Crypto on a foundation
Although I am putting my blockchain learning on hold, I hope to come back to it once I have achieved a reasonable level of cybersecurity knowledge and confidence. As a start, I have completed the Rustlings course and the CosmWasm smart contract basics course, which will serve as a good foundation for me to come back to.

# Outlook
## Expanding My Blockchain Focus
As much as I enjoy learning about the Cosmos ecosystem, I have decided to broaden my blockchain knowledge beyond it. While I'm currently pausing my blockchain learning to focus on cybersecurity, I plan to return and expand my focus to include Solidity and the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM).

## Why Expand My Focus?
While Cosmos has been a great area of focus for me, learning Solidity and the EVM would allow me to explore a different blockchain ecosystem and enable me to work on projects built on Ethereum, which is one of the most popular blockchain platforms.

## Benefits of Learning Solidity and the EVM
Learning Solidity and the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) would offer me several benefits that would complement my cybersecurity knowledge and help me build decentralized applications.

Firstly, it would open up new possibilities for me to audit and build decentralized applications on any EVM-compatible blockchain, not just the Ethereum network. This would broaden my knowledge and understanding of smart contract development, allowing me to explore the world of decentralized finance (DeFi) applications and other dApps.

Moreover, with the increasing demand for blockchain developers and security experts, possessing Solidity and EVM skills would make me a valuable asset in the industry. By learning these technologies, I would be able to help close the workforce gap that currently exists in this sector, while also potentially increasing my employment opportunities.

## Conclusion
Expanding my blockchain focus beyond Cosmos to include Solidity and the EVM will provide me with a deeper understanding of blockchain technology and enable me to explore new areas of blockchain development.

