---
layout: post
date: 2023-03-03
inline: false
title: Attended the 4th Annual European Medical Device And Diagnostic Cybersecurity Conference
---

# Attended the 4th Annual European Medical Device And Diagnostic Cybersecurity Conference

## Introduction
I recently attended the 4th Annual European Medical Device And Diagnostic Cybersecurity Conference in Brussels. This was an exciting opportunity to learn about the latest trends and advancements in the medical device and diagnostic cybersecurity industry. I was accompanied by a colleague responsible for our processes, and together we were able to split up and absorb both the cybersecurity and software topics.

## Key Takeaways
During the conference, I had the privilege of having a long chat with a former FDA employee, which was enlightening. We discussed the current state of the industry and the emerging trends that are shaping the future of medical device and diagnostic cybersecurity. I also enjoyed various discussions around Threat Modeling methodologies and vulnerability management in general and how it pertains to product security as opposed to IT security. 

## Upcoming Regulations
One of the topics that really stuck to my mind was the upcoming regulations of the FDA with their pre-market draft as well as EU regulations and the aim for harmonization and convergence. As a professional working in the medical device and diagnostic cybersecurity industry, I believe it is essential to stay up to date with these regulations and to understand their implications for our business.

## Conclusion
Overall, the 4th Annual European Medical Device And Diagnostic Cybersecurity Conference was an excellent opportunity for me to learn, network, and share knowledge with other professionals in the industry. I gained valuable insights into the latest trends, emerging technologies, and upcoming regulations that are shaping the future of medical device and diagnostic cybersecurity. I look forward to applying these insights to my work and contributing to the advancement of the industry.
